Okay. So what is Kubernetes?
Kubernetes is a container platform,
it's a micro service,
and it's also a portable Cloud platform, and a lot more.
So there's a few different things that can do.
With modern web services,
users expect applications to be available 24-7,
and developers expect to deploy new versions of those applications many times a day.
So containerization helps package software to serve those goals and
enables applications in particular to be
released and updated in an easy and fast way without downtime.
So Kubernetes really helps you make sure that containerized applications can run
anywhere you want and helps you find those resources and tools to work with them.
It's a production ready, open-source platform,
designed with Google's experience,
and also their architecture in maintaining orchestration and
also combines the best of breed ideas from the open source community.
Now that we understand what Kubernetes is,
we can go through and make a Kubernetes demo inside of our browser.
Fortunately, this is available via the Kubernetes.IO platform.
Let's go ahead and take a look.
So first, what I do is I go to the interactive tutorial on creating a cluster.
If you see at the beginning that says,
the difficulty level is beginner,
and this should take us a little under 10 minutes.
So let's go ahead and start the scenario. Here we go.
So when I first start running here,
it's going to ask me to type in Minikube version. So let's go ahead and do that.
Great. You can see it's version 0.34.1.
Now, if I say Minikube start.
Great. Now, it's going to go ahead and spin up the Kubernetes cluster for us.
Once this is running,
I can go to the next step.
So you can see during
this configuration phase is going to download the necessary components.
It's going to then also launch Kubernetes.
Once this is done,
then we will have a fully running Kubernetes cluster,
and it's something that we can run containers against.
Great. Now that we've done that,
we can move on to the next step.
So we're going to go through and make sure that we have the right version.
So let's go ahead and run kubectl version.
Great, so it goes through and it tells us all the different information,
the specific versions of even the Go software,
and what compiler was used as well.
Next, we're going to go through and find out the information about the cluster.
So I'm going to go ahead and type that in.
So I'm going to run kubectl cluster info,
and this shows us the actual IP address of the master and also the kubeDNS.
Next, I'm going to go through and I'm going to get the nodes
that are available. Here we go.
You can see that Minikube is ready,
and it's in the master role,
and it's actually been running for 51 seconds.
Great. We've gone through and run
the interactive tutorial which created a Kubernetes cluster.
A few of the really fascinating things about what we did are that one,
we ran it all inside of a web browser.
So Kubernetes is an open source platform,
but it also has
this companion website that lets you walk through all the different steps.
We are also able to make sure that the cluster
had enough info by running kubectl cluster info,
and this gave us all the different information about
whether it's a master node or whether DNS is running,
and then affirmation is right here,
and then also we're able to actually get the existing nodes by running kubectl get node.
So you can see, it takes just a few minutes
to go through and configure a Kubernetes cluster.
Once that's running, you're ready to run containers on your own.